Hi everybody, my name is Winston Chang. I'm a software engineer at RStudio,
and today I'm going to be talking about doing interactive graphics with Shiny.
There are a bunch of code examples, which you can see at this URL at the bottom
on GitHub, and the slides are available there too.
Okay, so here's an overview of what I'm going to talk about today. So first I'm going to talk about
different kinds of graphics and what we'd use them for.
So there are static versus interactive graphics. Static graphics are, you know, the traditional
plots that you would see. You might print them out. You can't interact with them,
and interactive ones obviously are things that you can interact with by, say, using your mouse.
There are graphics for different purposes. So for example, you might have a graphic for
presentation, like if you're creating a report that you want to display to somebody, or for
publication. And there's data graphics for exploring your data. So if you're still in the
data analysis process or, you know, in the exploratory data analysis phase, and you're
trying to learn something about your data, that's another purpose for using a data graphic,
as opposed to for presentations. So after that, I'm going to talk about the nuts and bolts of
actually creating interactive graphics with Shiny. So we'll get into some code. And after that,
I'm going to talk about using, creating Shiny gadgets, which are, those are, it's using Shiny
for the data exploration phase. And this is a new feature that we've added in Shiny 0.13,
which was released a month ago. Oh, and I should also mention that the interactive
graphics features were added in the last year. Okay, so when we're thinking about data graphics,
one question that, well, one issue that's important when thinking about them is,
is the graphic static, or is it interactive? So here are a bunch of static graphics. These
are all generated by R. These should all, they probably all look familiar to you.
So one of the most basic things you do in R is to create, to create visualizations like this. So
up here, we have a histogram created by the hist function. Here we have a scatter plot
created by the plot function with a, well, this one actually also has a linear regression
line added as well. And then over here, we have a box plot.
And these graphics in R, these are all part of the base R package. And they're all here,
I mean, they're all static. It's sort of the way that things evolved. Before R existed,
these types of graphics existed. And they were targeted towards, probably mostly towards print
publication, or printing out, creating printouts for reports. And then over here,
you know, back a long time ago, people drew these out by hand. And then after,
once computers came around and were able to generate some of these, they were,
they could generate these figures, but they were still meant for printing on paper, and they tended
to not have a lot of interactive features. So that's sort of the heritage of these types of plots.
So more recently, this is not like really recent history, but more recently, there have been
interactive graphical systems like this. This is a screenshot. This is actually two screenshots
of a program called GGOBI, which allows one to interact with the data and explore it. So all
of these plots are linked in this example. This is not a live example. This is a screenshot.
But it lets you take a look at the subset of this data. So like this yellow highlighted region,
the data here corresponds to the highlighted bits here, and in these scatter plots, and in these
bars here, and then in the second plot on the right, or the second set of plots on the right,
there's a larger region that's selected here, and the other corresponding points are highlighted.
So this sort of tool was used for, or is designed for data exploration. I mean,
you're still trying to learn something about your data, but it's not targeted toward presentation
for, obviously, you can't use this for print output, because you're not going to be able to
interact with a printed page. But even sharing this over a computer is difficult, because
other people might not have the software, and the software to run the same sort of
visualization that you've created here. Okay, so the second question, which I've hinted at
already, is what is the purpose of the graphic? So for a data graphic, you might use them for in
the exploratory phase of your data analysis. So here's an example. I'm looking at this histogram
of the built-in data set in R. It's about geyser eruptions, Old Faithful. So I run histogram here.
It looks like this, and I decide, well, what if I want to look at the histogram in a little bit
more detail with smaller bin size? Well, I can just tweak a parameter, and then it looks like
this. So I've run hist again with a greater number of breaks, or a greater number of bins, in other
words, and then it looked like this. And, you know, by tweaking these parameters during the data
exploration phase, you might be able to learn something new about the data. But these, you know,
it's not, these are not all meant to be shared with other people. This might just, this is just
for me to learn something about the data. Okay, and then once you're done doing your data exploration
and learning about your data and processing it, you might generate data graphics for presentation.
So this is just a page out of a book. It's got these line graphs, and these are meant for, you
know, this isn't meant for the data analyst or the researcher to learn about the data. This is
meant to communicate some findings to readers, in this case, readers of a book. It could be, you
know, a print article, or just, you know, a report, printed report, or something that's on a web page,
dashboard perhaps. Okay, so state of data graphics about five years ago was that,
well, you could generate, there's tools for generating static graphics for the data
exploration phase, and this is a screenshot of, that we saw before. But there's plenty of other
tools. I mean, even, you know, Excel can generate static graphics that you can use for data exploration.
Those same graphics, once you finish your data analysis,
they could be used for presentation. Maybe you tweak them to look a little bit nicer,
but they're essentially the same thing. And for the data exploration phase,
there were interactive tools like Jigobi, which, you know, are good for learning something about
your data, but it's more difficult to use them for presentation to communicate
those findings to other people, mostly for technical reasons.
But this left us, so there's this quadrant, other quadrant here that was sort of left unfilled. So
interactive graphics for presentation. Well, in the last few years, that's changed quite a bit.
So here are some examples from the New York Times. These are examples of data journalism.
They do a really good job with these. So here's, these are just two screenshots.
I'll show you these live. Get the web browser up here.
Oops. Okay. So here's an interactive tax,
tax, well, explorer, like, are you receiving a marriage penalty or bonus? So the idea is that
in the United States, if you file your taxes as a married couple jointly versus filing
separately as two single people, you may end up paying more in taxes or less if you're,
even if you have the same amount of income. So for example, you know, so I just picked this
number up here. If you're part of a couple and you earn $81,000 a year, and all of that is earned
by one partner and the other partner doesn't have any income, then if you file as a married
couple, then you save, you pay $5,300 less in taxes. So whereas if you're up here where, you
know, both partners earn about the same amount, and then if you file as a married couple, then
you actually pay more in taxes than you would if you filed single. So this graphic has some basic
interactive features. You know, you can hover over it and it'll tell you some information. So if you
want to find out, like, you know, we're a couple and, you know, one person makes this much money
and the other person makes this other amount of money, you can get some detailed information about
how much of a bonus or penalty you're paying in taxes. And that's something that, you know,
it adds a lot to this graphic. If you just see this graphic like this, you know, a lot of that
information is there, but it's a little bit harder to interpret and it's harder to find yourself on
here, like with these various incomes. Like on the x-axis here, it's the total income and the y-axis
is the percentage split that's earned by each partner. Okay, so that's one example. Another
example is this interactive map here. This is about, well, the best and worst places to grow up.
So if you are, that idea behind this one is if you, depending on where you grew up and your
income percentile, there are some places where it's, where if you grow up as an adult, you'll
tend to earn more money or you'll tend to earn less money based on where you grew up compared to
other places in the nation. So I live in Minnesota, in Minneapolis, so I'll just zoom in on that.
As you can see, well, actually let me back up for a sec. So when you see this large map here,
there's all this information here. So there are some parts of the nation where
people tend to earn more money when they grow up and some people were, places where they tend to
earn less. So I live up here, upper Midwest, so I guess people tend to earn more money as they
when they grow up here. But it's, again, it's a little bit hard to interpret that
information just by looking at this map. So the interactive features that this supports is zooming.
And then when I zoom in enough, I can see some value, I can see some numbers here. So there's a
$700 bonus if you grew up in Hennepin County, where I live, and are in the 25th income percentile.
And when I hover over each one, it gives me a little bit more,
sort of a detailed text box that gives information, but the same information.
Okay, but this lets you, you know, this interactive map really lets people learn
a lot more about the data than they would otherwise be able to just by looking at,
just by looking at the zoomed out map. Okay, so that's, again, that's something that's pretty new
that people are able to do now, which is creating these interactive graphics for presentation. I
mean, journalism, data journalism examples are good examples of presentation. Okay, so here we've
filled in all these boxes here now. We've got, so for interactive graphics that are used for
presentation, there are the technologies to do that today. So the things that have changed that
may have made that possible are, well, there's two really big changes. So one of them is that
there's fast networks for sharing visualizations, right? These are not, these are not things that
you can share in print. You can't, we can't publish these interactive graphics to a book and expect
them to be, still be interactive. So, and this is, you know, the tool, the technology that has made
this possible is the internet. The other change is that there's widespread standardized technologies
for, that people interact with, and these are web browsers. So web browsers are everywhere. They're
on your phone, they're on computers, they're on everybody's desk. And, you know, web browsers
also have existed for a while, just like the internet has, but it's only been recently where
there's been a lot of JavaScript libraries for data visualization that can bring
those interactive graphics to people in a nice, easy-to-use way.
And again, that's something that's really changed a lot in the last five years.
Okay, so we've got the same matrix here, but this time I'm sort of looking at a slightly
different aspect of it. And what this is showing is what tools can you use to create these things?
So up here for static graphics for both exploration and presentation,
you can use R and with an asterisk here. That asterisk is down at the bottom. I say, look, so
this is R and data visualization packages like ggplot2 and lattice and a host of other ones as
well. Those are just some of the more popular ones. So R asterisk was capable of creating static
graphics for both exploration and presentation. For interactive graphics, that was harder to do
previously, but now you can use that same knowledge that you have of R
and add some knowledge of Shiny and create interactive graphics for both exploration
and for presentation. So probably most of the examples that you've seen, most of the Shiny
examples that you've seen are meant for presentation. They're meant to be delivered
over the web for people to, you know, for the data analyst creates this and somebody else is consuming
the information. So here's a really basic example of that. So this is a, well, this is
probably the most basic example that we have of a Shiny application. So this is an interactive
graphic where the graphic shows this histogram of the same data that we saw before, but there's a
slider that can control the number of bins that are shown in the histogram. So this is an interactive
histogram or the number of bars. This is not a live app, so I'll show you the actual thing by
running this code in RStudio. Okay, here we go. So if I move the slider, that histogram updates.
But, and this is, you know, from the very beginning, Shiny was able to do this.
It had these sort of web form like inputs. This is a slider, which is a little bit more advanced
than a typical web form input, but there's also select inputs and text inputs. People could enter
numbers and those would influence, those could influence how this plot is displayed. But
this graphic itself is not interactive. So if I click and drag on it, what it's, you can see it's
just, it's like I could save this to a file, but I can't actually interact with this part.
Okay, now let me go into the code in a little bit of detail here.
Probably if you've used Shiny before, this should all be very familiar, but if you're new to Shiny,
then you might learn something from this. So there's two parts. There's a UI code and there's
a server code. So in the UI, I define the layout. So I say it's a basic page. There's a plot output
that defines a container for this plot to go in. That's called, and it's called it with the name
plot and a slider input with the name bins and a bunch of other parameters like the minimum and
maximum and a label for it. So that's, that defines it, but that tells Shiny that there
should be a slider input here. Okay, so that's the UI side. That's what shows up in the web.
That's what the web browser receives. It's actually just, it is an HTML webpage. On the server side,
there is, this is code that executes in an R process on the server.
And I tell it that there's an output called the plot output dollar plot.
And what should be displayed there is this histogram. It's a histogram of this dataset
faithful dollar weighting and the breaks. That's the number of bins is taken from input dollar bins.
So that's the input here, slider input called bins. And that matches up with input dollar bins
and output dollar plot that matches up with this plot output plot. Okay. And so that's,
that's how it all gets tied together just on the server side with this input and output,
these input and output values.
Okay. So, all right. So that's, that's like the basic Shiny app. That's the stuff that
we've always been able to do in Shiny. Now the new part is these direct interactions with plots.
So let me show you an example. Okay. So with that histogram that we saw, I couldn't do anything.
I couldn't click or drag on it or anything like that. With this, with the scatter plot here,
I can click on it. And as you can see, there's these X and Y values that show up
in the bottom there that correspond to where I clicked. So let's say I want to click at five
comma or X value of five and the Y value of 15. That's about right. And you can see that's,
that's what, that's what displayed down here. So this is something, this is, this is something
new and being able to click on a plot like this. Now these raw values might not be so useful
on their own, but we'll show you what to do with them in a little bit. Okay. Let's look at the code.
So it's really simple. It's, it's, it's very simple to use. So with what we have now is a
plot output with the plot. And now I say, click equals plot underscore click. So it's, it's the
same as your regular plot output, except you just add this new thing, click equals plot underscore
click. That defines a new input value called plot underscore click, and it has X and Y positions.
So up here, I have the render plot and out here, this is the, this is the text.
I'm generating the text for the X and that displays the X and Y position.
All right. And that's just input dollar plot, click dollar X and Y. That's all there is to it.
But that in and of itself, as I mentioned, might not be super useful
because, you know, usually you don't just want the raw coordinate. Let's run this again.
Usually you don't just want the raw coordinate. You want to do something with it. Like,
for example, select the nearest point. Right.
So in order to do that, there's a function called near points. I'll demonstrate how this,
there's a function called near points. I'll demonstrate how this, I'll demonstrate this
in action, then I'll talk about the code. So now if I click near a point,
it pulls up, what I'm displaying down here is it pulls out a row of data from the dataset. And
it's actually, because my line wrapping here is a little bit, the line wrap column is a little bit
narrow. It's displaying on two rows, but this is, this is one row out of the data frame with all
these different columns. So I click near this point, it displays that. If I click far away,
it's not going to, it doesn't display anything. I have to be within five pixels.
That's, that's the value that I've chosen here.
Okay. So the code for that looks like this. So,
so for the input or the output dollar info, a render print, and to select a row, I use near
points, this new function near points. I give it the data object, empty cars, the click input,
which is input dollar plot click. And then I tell it which columns out of empty cars I'm using for
my X and Y axis. So weight or WT and MPG. And, and like I said, there's a, well, it has to be
within five pixels. That's the value I've chosen. The click has to be within five pixels of a point
and the maximum number of points it will select is one. That's the maximum number of rows it'll
return from the, from that data. So, and I'll just, I'll demonstrate that briefly. So if I'm
clicking right here, there's actually a bunch of, there's actually two points right here that are
very close, but because I've said the maximum number of points is one, it'll only return
one row out of the data, which is being displayed down there. If I change that
max rows to something else, I could, I could have returned more, more rows.
Okay. Now another thing to note is that I did that plot with base R graphics. If you're using
ggplot2, you don't need to pass in the X variable and the Y variable names because those are,
Shiny knows enough about ggplot2 objects to be able to extract that information automatically.
Okay. Now, another thing you might want to do with that. So that's, that's one use of, of,
of, of the click information is to select the nearest point. You know, another thing you can
do is to add a point to, to a plot or to a dataset. So, oops, actually, you know what,
I should talk about this code first before I demonstrate it. So one thing you might,
one way you might do that, you might approach it is by using rbind. So, so in this example,
I'm just taking empty cars and pulling out the two columns I'm interested in, weight and mpg.
And then I say, if the input dollar plot click is not null, so if there's some, if there was a click,
somebody had clicked on something, then rbind a new row to that data frame with the X and Y
positions, and then plot that. Okay. So, so this is, this is a first pass approach at this. And
if I were to run this, now, this might not come out very well in this, in this webinar,
but if I click on this, you can see a point appears briefly and then it disappears. So,
well, why is that? That's kind of weird. That's not very useful. I'm not actually
adding a point to my data. Well, maybe I am, but it only lasts for a moment.
Well, we can take a look at this code. The problem is, is that when I click,
it sets this input dollar plot click to a non-null value. So it, that tells this whole
render plot to re-execute and then it enters into this if statement and it rbinds the data
successfully and it plots it. So we do see that point for a moment, but then when the plot is up,
the updated plot is sent to the web browser for display, this value for input dollar plot click
gets reset. And when that gets reset, because the value changed and that tells the render plot to
re-execute. And when it re-executes, this time plot underscore click is null and,
and it doesn't enter in this if statement, it just plots empty, like empty cars without any
modification. So, so, so we have an issue with reactivity here that we have to deal with. So
the way to deal with that is something that I call state accumulation. So it's this combination
of using a reactive values object and the observer event function. So this is a little
bit more advanced, but this is, if you're, if you're doing, if you're doing interactive graphics,
where you need to record a bunch of events that happen, like a bunch of changes that people make
to it, like clicking on, clicking on a plot, you need to, you need to save that information somehow
and store it and build it up. And so this is, this is a common way that you would do it.
So it's a combination of reactive values. So here I create something called valves,
it's a reactive values object that is similar to the, the input object, actually,
of a, of a Shiny application. It behaves, it's the same type of object.
So, and there's an item in it called MTC. So when MTC changes, you have, well, valve dollar MTC,
similar to when an input value changes that will tell any reactives that use that to re-execute.
So we don't have to worry about the details right now about how that works, but,
so we have valves dollar MTC, and then we say observe event,
when input dollar plot click changes. That's what this means. Observe event,
input dollar plot click means when this changes, execute this code.
And what this code does is it overbinds the existing value of MTC and then adds a new,
a new row onto that with X and Y positions of the click. And then for the plot, it's very simple.
We just, we just plot this valves dollar MTC, dollar weight and MPG. So if we run this code,
let's see, here we go. And now when I click, a new point gets added. So that, this may be
useful as well for experimenting with like what would happen if a data point was added here?
Like how would, how would a model fit of this change, for example? So, yeah, so there you go.
All right. Now, this is something that I'll get back to when we talk about gadgets,
but it's useful to know right now. So you can have a shiny app. Normally when you deploy a
shiny app to a remote server, you don't want the app to exit and return a value. That isn't useful.
That would just quit in somebody's web browser. But if you're running it locally, you can actually
interact with a shiny app, perhaps with an interactive graphic, and then have it return
some value. Like, for example, when I was adding those points, you could have it return all the
new data frame containing all the new points. And to do that, you would add an action button
called done or call it whatever you want, but just an action button and then have an observe event.
And that's listening on input dollar done. And when somebody clicks on that button,
it calls the stop app and then returns a value here. So when you run your shiny app at the R
console, you'd say, run app, give it the app, and then save the return value into a variable.
And that will take, when the app stops, it returns values.mpc and that gets saved into this
variable called value. Okay, but we'll come back to that when we talk about gadgets.
So some other interactions, that was just, I showed you clicking. There's some other ones
that are useful as well. There's clicking, there's double clicking. And you can see,
the way that I use the click option before, as I said, click equals the string plot underscore
click. That's actually equivalent to running this from click equals click ops ID equals plot
underscore click. This is just a shorthand, the one that we used. So in this double click,
I've written it out in a long way. And the reason that the long form is useful is because you can
pass other options to it. So there's also hovering, which is when your mouse moves and rests over a
location, it can send that coordinate to the server. So here, in this case, I said hover equals
hover ops, give it the ID. And then I set this option delay equals 500. So my mouse has to rest
some over a plot for half a second, 500 milliseconds before it sends an updated value to the server.
Okay, so I'll demonstrate these. Okay, here.
Okay. All right. So here's my scatter plot. And you could actually see that plot, this input
dollar plot hover, it updates when I move the mouse. Let me scroll down a little bit so we can
see a little bit more of that. So right now, I'm showing you the entire data structure that's sent
from the browser to the R process. So normally, I'd just access x and y.
But those are the top two things. But there's all this other information that you can use as well.
And if you want to explore this information, you can just run str on these
input values, and it'll display this. So again, the hovering updates when I rest my mouse for a
moment. Clicking, I just click the mouse, click it again. The value updates when I click, double
click. I double click there, another double click. Okay, so you can use these values for,
you can use these different interactions for different purposes. And there's another type
of interaction that's really useful. It's called brushing. So I can select a region,
I just click my mouse and dragged it. And this time, instead of just x and y,
it's actually giving the x min and x max, this x range and the y min and y max,
the y range of this. You can drag this around to update those values, you can resize it.
And as it should be pretty obvious, this can be useful for if you want to select a bunch of points,
or let's say you want to exclude some points because they're outliers.
You can use it for that as well. Okay, so now let me show you how the brushing works. It's pretty
simple. Like the clicking, it's, you just add a new option, brush equals plot underscore brush.
And if you want to see the points or the rows of data, or the points that were selected in
the brush, you'd say, we have this other function, liken your points, and then you'd say,
liken your points, it's called brushed points, we say, brushed points, give it the data object,
empty cars, and then give it the brush input. So input dollar plot brush that
corresponds with this here. All right, so that's pretty simple, and I'll demonstrate this.
There we go, okay. Okay, so here's the plot. Right now there's zeroes are selected.
If I brush over those points, you can see there's three rows are selected. Again,
I got this funny wrapping here, but there's three rows that are selected.
I can move it over to here, and one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight points are selected,
and it's just, it's printing these out. And you could take these points and do something on them,
right? You could hide them, or you could include them in a linear model, or exclude them
from a linear model, and so on. That brush points function makes it really simple to figure out
which points those are that are selected. Okay, so that's one use for brushing.
Oh, and there's some other options for the brushing. If you've worked with interactive
graphics, or you've designed interactive graphics before, you might know the difference between
debouncing and throttling. You can control that here. And if you're running, if you know you're
running your application locally, as opposed to over, you know, serving it up across the
internet, then you can reduce the delay before, that the brush has to rest before it sends,
the browser sends an update to the server. And you can make it, if you're running it locally,
if you're running it locally, you can make it more responsive by reducing that value. So,
this is, this would update every 30 milliseconds, so that's very fast.
Okay, so, all right, so that's, now another technique that you can use
by taking these plot interactions is to link plots. So, in the previous stuff I just showed
you, here's how to select data points out of a select, out of a, here's how to select data
points that were clicked on or brushed. But we can actually link two plots together,
so let me demonstrate an example of that. Okay, so here I have two plots, and they're connected.
These are both scatter plots of the same data set, but they're, this one is plotting the HP
and DISP column, and this one is plotting the NPG and the weight column of out of empty cars.
Now, if I select a bunch of points with brush, with a brush,
it'll highlight them in that second plot there, turns them blue.
All right, so this can, this can be useful for finding connections between
the variables in the data. So, there seems to be some general trend as we,
of, you know, these points are not, when I select a group here, it's not just simply a
random group that's shown in the second plot. There's some connection between these variables.
Okay, so now in this particular example, I don't have the, it's not possible to brush in the second
plot and have it update the first plot. That's a bit more code, so I'm just trying to keep it
simple for right now. So, so how does this, how do we do this? Well, in the UI side, we create
two plot outputs. One of them is called scatter one, one is called scatter two. The first one
has, we give it the brush option, or the brush parameter, and we just name it brush.
And on the server side, to generate the first plot, we just say render plot and ggplot
with some points. So, this is the code to create a scatter plot. And for the second one, we do a
little bit more. We, first, we find, we take the brushed points from empty cars of input dollar
brush. You notice that this one is using ggplot2, so I didn't have to specify the x and y variables.
I just gave it the data object and the brush, so it's very, very easy to call this. And I save that
in a variable called brushed, and then I do a ggplot of the data set, and I add a layer of points.
This is the base layer of points, and then I also add another layer of points given with just the
brushed data points. So, I say data equals brushed, and then I give it a different color to highlight
them. So, that's all it takes to link those plots together that way. Again, but this is one
directional linking, or one, yeah, one directional link brushing. Okay, another useful
technique is linked zooming. So, this is, I'll show you an example of this. Okay, this is a line
graph, well, it's actually two line graphs of sunspot data going all the way back to about
1750, from about 1750 to probably about 1990 or so. Now, this is a time series, and this link
brushing is a commonly used thing in time series. You may have seen this, like, in stock charts, for
example. What I can do is I can, they're showing the same data right now, but I can select a region
on the bottom here. So, I'm using the brush here, and just a horizontal direction, and then it
displays that subset of data that's brushed up here on top, in this first plot. So, that lets
me look at this with a lot more detail. And if this graph wasn't interactive, it would be much
more difficult. I mean, you could do this in R, but you'd have to, just from the console by
plotting it and zooming in on regions, but it would be a lot more tedious work than it takes
to just drag the brush over like that. Okay, and if I click outside, then the brush disappears,
and it resets the first plot. Okay, the way to do this is, I've created two plot outputs,
and for the second one, I say brush equals brush ops, ID equals brush, and I give it, I tell it
only brush in the X direction. So, previously, you were able to brush in the X and Y directions
by dragging a rectangle. This time, you just drag horizontally, and it selects the whole vertical
region automatically, right? It displays something in the whole vertical region,
right? So, I'm just moving my mouse horizontally, and that whole vertical region is selected.
Okay, now, server-side, for the zoomed-in plot, I just say, well, so, I've got my ggplot defined
up here. For the zoomed-in plot, I just say, if the input dollar brush is not null,
then take that plot, which I saved in P, and set the X limits. So, that's basically setting
the X range for it, to the input dollar brush, dollar X min and X max. And this is with ggplot,
and this is with ggplot2. That's the syntax with base graphics. It's similar. It's a little bit
different, but it's similar. So, just add that on there with ggplot, and then return the plot,
and that's all it takes. Okay, close that,
and moving on. Okay, so, the next big topic that I want to talk about is shiny gadgets.
So, the stuff that we've seen, like, most shiny apps that you see in the gallery are,
those are shiny apps that are, they obviously have some interactive features,
and whether the graphics themselves are interactive is, you know, sort of a separate
question, but those are often meant for presentation. So, for presenting something
interesting over the web for somebody else. Now, some of these can be used for data exploration,
right? If you're a data analyst, you might create a tool for other people to explore a data set,
and so, the line, there's not necessarily a sharp line between data presentation and data exploration,
but there's sort of a gradual gradations between that, but now, shiny gadgets, these are things
that are meant explicitly for the data exploration phase. They're meant for part of, when you're
doing your data analysis, when you're learning about it, and you want to use some interactive
graphical tools for exploring your data, that's what shiny gadgets are for, and this is something
that was previously not very easy to do in R, but hopefully, with shiny gadgets, we're making it a
lot easier. So, they're new in shiny 0.13, which was released in January, and, yes, again, they
make it easy to use interactive graphics for the exploration phase. Okay, so, let me demonstrate a
simple one. Now, this first one I'm going to show you is actually not interactive graphics, but it's
a very simple gadget, and it's useful to see this before we get into the graphical part
to understand what's going on. So, this is a gadget that asks, prompts somebody to type in
their password. Now, this can be useful because in R, well, if you have them type in their password
in a function call, it could save it in the R history. So, I got my, in RStudio, you have your
history tab here, and it can show you everything that you've typed, and you don't want passwords
to be in there, probably. So, if I say, I typed in my password, abc, clicked done, and as you can see,
it returned this value abc. So, I can say, maybe I want to save that in something called, a variable
called pw. I'm going to type the password, abcd, done, and then if I type pw, it'll print out that
value. So, I've got the password saved in that variable. So, that's what a Shiny gadget is.
It runs in this little viewer window here. There's other display modes for it in
RStudio. If you're not using RStudio, it'll pop up in a web browser, but it'll have the same
functionality. And it's a nice little interactive tool right here that uses Shiny.
But this is not meant for deployment, right? You wouldn't deploy this on a website
using Shiny server or shinyapps.io, and you don't want people to click the done button
and then have the app exit, because, you know, that's not useful. That would just
kill your app on the server. Okay. So, there's three main differences in how Shiny
gadgets operate compared to regular Shiny apps. So, the first is that you invoke it from a function.
So, I call that function git underscore password. And that function, it runs the special Shiny app.
The special Shiny app has, it uses the mini UI for the layout. That's a new package that we
released along with Shiny 0.13. And it's meant especially for laying out Shiny gadgets or other
applications in this small constrained space, hence the name mini UI. And finally, when the app
exits, or sorry, when somebody clicks on the done button, it calls stop app, and that ends the app,
and it returns value to the R console. Okay. So, let's see. Okay. I'll explain the features here.
So, first, as I said, it's invoked from a function, git password. So, I've defined this
function here, git password. It's a function that does all this stuff. It defines a UI,
server, and then it calls run gadget. Okay. That's a special function for doing gadgets.
So, when they call, when the user runs git password, it runs all this code and calls run gadget.
And hopefully, you know, if you're making gadgets for other people to use,
they just load this. It could be in a package, for example. They would just have this function,
and they don't need to know all the internals of it. They just call git password.
So, for the layout, this stuff is from mini UI. So, there's this function mini page,
gadget title bar, and mini content panel. I'll show you how those line up in a little bit.
And finally, we have this observe event input dollar done. So, when they click on the done
button, it stops the app and returns that input dollar password. Or if they hit the cancel button,
then it stops and says no password. And those are things, the gadget title bar
automatically has those cancel and done buttons built into it.
Okay. So, here's an example of a gadget with interactive graphics.
All right. I'll run this application for this gadget.
I think I have it here. Okay. Now, the inspiration for this one was,
I was talking to a friend of mine who's a statistician, and he was showing me something
that he had to do in order to exclude outliers from a data set. So, he had a scatter plot like this.
And the way that he would do it is, he used R most of the time. So, he would save his data out of R,
open it up, load it up in Minitab, and then Minitab has a little graphical thing for
excluding outliers from a data set. So, we'd exclude his points, save the result out of Minitab,
and then import it back into R. And that was just a pain. So, he showed me this, and I was like,
okay, well, I think we can do something that's a lot better. We can keep it all in R
and give it a nice interface. So, scatter plot of that data set. And now, if I click on these points,
as you can see, I'm excluding them from what's being used in this linear model.
And I can brush points. I can turn those ones back on. I can hide these ones or remove those
ones from the model calculation. And I can also change the model, the polynomial degree used in
the model. So, this is a quadratic one. I'll turn those points back on. Or I can use a cubic
and so on. So, anyway. So, let's say I toggle some of these points.
Again, I do degree two, and then I say I'm done.
Well, okay. Let's get that console back so we can see it.
See the result here. So, I ran it. LM gadget. That was my function. That's the name of the
function that runs that gadget. I saved that output in a variable called M.
And I just happened, the way that I wrote this gadget, it returns the data of all the
selected data points, all the ones that were not excluded. And it also returns the model
object. That's an LM object. And it's got the coefficients, polynomial degree two.
So, it's got those two coefficients as well. Okay. So, with this type of gadget, you can
use R for your analysis, for all the great things that R is great for, for all the
stuff that you can run with code at the command line. But you can also
use it for those times where you need graphical interaction.
Okay. Okay. So, now, as I mentioned before, I would explain how these things,
these functions line up to, the UI functions line up to various parts of the interface.
So, I called mini page. That defines this whole page here. I say gadget title bar.
And that creates a title bar that goes across the top here. And I give it the name interactive LM,
which is printed up there. There's a cancel and a done button that are added automatically.
And then I add a mini content panel. That's where the basic or the main content goes.
And then at the bottom, I add a mini button block, which is a fixed height thing at the
bottom that I can add buttons to. I added two buttons, but you can add more or fewer if you
like. And if you've worked with layouts and with regular Shiny code or in HTML and CSS in general,
you know that it's hard to keep a fixed height thing. It can be hard to keep fixed height things
at the bottom and to have the height of a container scale to the available size. But
the mini UI package takes care of all that for you. So, that's the reason it's there.
Okay. This is the code that I use to accumulate the state when somebody clicks on a point or
toggles them with a brush. But I think we're running short of time,
so I won't go into detail on this. Okay. So, to wrap up,
well, I talked about static graphics versus interactive graphics. I talked about
using graphics for presentation as opposed to exploration. And hopefully,
you'll be able to take what you know about R and we already know about R and creating
plots in R and add this bit of Shiny knowledge and you'll be able to create, you know,
you'll be able to fill in all four quadrants of that matrix that I showed you earlier.
There's some other, here's some resources that show you how to do these things. There's the
article section of the Shiny Dev Center. So, it's at this URL and there's two, if you're going on
that page, there's two sections that are relevant. There's the interactive plot section
and there's the Shiny Gadgets section. And in the gallery, there are interactive plots
that are toward the bottom. But there's not a Shiny Gadgets section in the gallery. The gallery
actually runs live apps. And so, since Shiny Gadgets are not meant to be delivered over the
web, they're meant to run in your local R session. It wouldn't make sense to put them in the gallery.
Okay. And that just about wraps it up. So, I can take some questions.
Winston, thank you for that wonderful presentation. Can you hear me okay?
Yep. I can hear you, Garrett. Great. So, there were a ton of questions
while you were presenting. And we could sort of narrow them down into just a couple
overall meta questions. So, the first of those is, are these examples that you're showing
self-contained or do they involve some sort of server-side processing?
They do require, these examples all involve server-side processing in the sense that
there needs to be an R process running. So, they don't just run in the web browser.
And if you need to, well, if you need to do that, then there's other graphical libraries that are
available that can do it. But they're not, they don't give you the full power of, like, you can't
take these interactions and run them through your R code. And so, you don't have as much
flexibility. You're limited to what typically what these JavaScript libraries will allow you to do.
And then sort of a similar question, I guess, can you embed these interactive graphics and
the Shiny apps into R Markdown documents? You can if you use, I think we've termed them
interactive docs. So, you can use them in interactive R Markdown documents. They won't work
in, so, interactive documents are actually, they're actually R Markdown documents that are run
as Shiny apps. But your usual R Markdown documents that are just generate a static
HTML web page, those do not support this type of interactive graphics. But again, they do,
they would support interactive graphics that are, that run completely in the client, in the web
browser. And there are various, well, for those that are more advanced users, there are some HTML
widgets, packages that use HTML widgets that allow this. And then another common question is,
what visualization packages does Shiny work with to make interactive graphics?
Oh, okay. Well, so, I showed, for this type of interactive graphics that I showed, so, my purpose
here was to talk about things that where you could use your existing knowledge of R and R's
graphing packages, and then add some interactivity to them. So, this is using base R
and ggplot2. There's other graphing packages like Lattice. Unfortunately, we don't support
interactions with Lattice at this point. And so, for, I think for static graphics
that you could add interactivity to, those are the big ones.
There are packages that will generate graphics that are meant to be displayed in the web browser
that might be based on, for example, D3. But I, at this point, I couldn't tell you a whole lot about
those, about which ones work well with Shiny. And then my last question, or the last question is,
my last question is, is this technology meant to replace ggvis, or will ggvis one day replace
this technology? That's a really good question. So, this is not meant to replace ggvis.
ggvis is, it's a work that's, well, we've still got some work to do on it, and it's,
it will support much more, well, it actually already does support much more sophisticated
interactions than what I've shown you here. But there's still some more work, well, there's a
fair bit more work to be done on it, to really, to get it to do what we want to do. And this stuff
is, again, meant to take your existing knowledge of R graphing packages and add some interactivity
to them. So, in the long term, hopefully ggvis will supplant this stuff.
Great. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to answer those questions.
Yeah, thanks. It's been fun.